hello and welcome I'm Chris Tavano for
tundra Restaurant Supply we're here in
the kitchen of bar Lilly at the broker
in in Boulder Colorado today we're going
to show you how to make some infused
flavored oils with some herbs and
peppers all right so we're infusing two
kinds of olive oil today or two
different flavors we're going to have a
garlic and chili pepper one with a red
jalapeno and a serrano pepper and some
peppercorns
yes jalapenos can get read every pepper
starts off green and goes to the red
shades it's just a matter of when you
pick them that's why you often see green
but we've got a red jalapeno and a
serrano pepper the second oil we're
going to make is an herb infused oil
with some fresh garden picked rosemary
as well as thyme some peppercorns and a
clove of garlic so first off we're going
to start with the Chili Peppers I just
slit them open right in half so that way
you get the nice seeds and all that
capsaicin all that nice hot spice throw
in your peppercorns and a little bit of
garlic and then the reason why we're
doing this in a pot is because you're
going to want to steep this oil you're
going to want to bring it up to about a
temperature about three to 350 degrees
and then you want to sit there for about
ten minutes and just like tea or coffee
you're going to want the actual
perishable ingredients to steep for a
couple minutes so that way we don't
incur any kind of botulism later down or
food spoiling later on down the line
all right so we're pulling our peppers
off the off the flame right now one
thing to notice is you don't necessarily
want to fry your peppers in the garlic
you don't want them to start turning
brown and getting crispy you really just
want them to steep like you do coffee
beans or tea leaves you just want to
bring the heat out of it and infuse the
flavor into the oil so from here what I
want to do now is get our peppers in our
jar I'm going to have our nice little
funnel and careful this is hot oil you
want to splash yourself too much
got our nice chili oil boom and once
that cools down to room temperature you
can sort on your shelf for up to 30 days
or in the fridge for up to 90 days all
right so we let our herbs steep in the
oil over flame for a few 5-10 minutes
out of
out 300 to 350 degrees again you're not
necessarily trying to fry your herbs
you're just trying to steep them so you
don't want them to get all crispy and
brown and really sizzle EU just want to
get the flavor and the essence in the
aroma out of the herbs and into the oil
nice philosophy to think about it is
once you smell your herbs your Chili
Peppers that's a good time to pull it
off so from here this one's a little bit
trickier just because we got the herbs
to deal with it's just a little trickier
getting it into the actual bottle
careful using your fingers because that
could be really hot so the biggest
reason why we're just not straining this
and discarding the herbs or the Chili
Peppers is really honestly for
presentation mostly I mean once you've
let it steep at temperature for a good 5
to 10 minutes without frying you've
gotten all the flavor from the herbs of
the peppers what you really wanted to do
now is we're using these nice ornate
table craft oil cruet sand bottles so
you might as well just go the route
presentation and throw the herbs in
there as well
some other nice bottles you can see
using that I personally like especially
at home are the table craft Mele style
these numbers are nice because they just
got a nice curvature shape to it so it's
a little bit more unique to what you put
in one again if you're in a restaurant
and you're really cruising through the
day you could always just put it in a
table craft widemouth squeeze bottle
works just as nice great for finishing
oil or if you want to decorate the plate
alright so here's a couple infused oils
that you could possibly make the herb
and the chili pepper however also keep
in mind your options are limitless you
could do anything from sun-dried
tomatoes to chives to shallots to basil
to anything that you can think of that
has some sort of flavor or innate flavor
that you want to bring out and put onto
something else through your oil that's
exactly what you could do for infused
oils just always remember steep it
because that's what's going to enhance
the most essence of flavor as well keep
yourself free of any kind of botulism so
obviously there's other paths
cool uses for olive oil around your
kitchen you could use it for a
moisturizer for your butcher block you
can use it for a polish on your
stainless steel you ever have those
squeaky hinges on your refrigerator or
your ovens put a little use it as grease
it's a great application for that as
well as other home remedies for
moisturizing your skin washing your hair
all those kinds of things are great for
olive oil as well the last thing that
we're going to segue into one of our
next videos coming up this winter is
salad dressings and emulsification
that's probably the biggest thing you'll
see with olive oils and I'm Chris Tavano
for tundra restaurant supply
joining you from the kitchen of bar
Lilly at the broker in in Boulder
Colorado here's to a better mise
applause
you